doc: guide - using valgrind to debug memory leaks (#31501)
nodejs/node: doc/guides/investigating_native_memory_leak.md

# Investigating Memory Leaks with valgrind

A Node.js process may run out of memory due to excessive consumption of
native memory. Native Memory is memory which is not managed by the
V8 Garbage collector and is allocated either by the Node.js runtime, its

> dependencies or native [addons](://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html).

Reviewer: Is this link right? It's missing the protocol

Author: Thanks for catching that

Author: @XhmikosR fixed

==28993==
--28993-- WARNING: unhandled amd64-linux syscall: 332
--28993-- You may be able to write your own handler.
--28993-- Read the file README_MISSING_SYSCALL_OR_IOCTL.
--28993-- Nevertheless we consider this a bug.  Please report
--28993-- it at http://valgrind.org/support/bug_reports.html.
==28993==
==28993== HEAP SUMMARY:
==28993==     in use at exit: 6,140 bytes in 23 blocks
==28993==   total heap usage: 12,888 allocs, 12,865 frees, 13,033,244 bytes allocated
==28993==
==28993== LEAK SUMMARY:
==28993==    definitely lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==      possibly lost: 304 bytes in 1 blocks
==28993==    still reachable: 5,836 bytes in 22 blocks
==28993==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993== Rerun with --leak-check=full to see details of leaked memory
==28993==
==28993== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==28993== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come
```

This reports that Node.js is not _completely_ clean as there is some memory
that was allocated but not freed when the process shut down. It is often

> impractical/not worth being completely clean in this respect and Node.js

Reviewer 2: Could we add the 'why' around `It is often
impractical/not worth being completely clean in this respect` so that people not familiar with the topic will at least get a pointer of where to look? Maybe something like `most modern operating systems will clean up the memory of the process after the shutdown while doing this manually for _all_ of the cases may have a negative impact on the code complexity and shutdown times. Nevertheless, this does _not_ mean that it's fine to leave not freed memory, just that in some cases it's a necessary evil.` (my wording could obviously be better)

Author: @lundibundi updated

does a pretty good job only leaving on the order of 6KB that are
not freed on shutdown.

## An obvious memory leak

Leaks can be introduced in native addons and the following is a simple
example leak based on the "Hello world" addon from
[node-addon-examples](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-examples).

In this example, a loop which allocates ~1MB of memory and never frees it
has been added:

```C++
void* malloc_holder = nullptr;
napi_value Method(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
  napi_status status;
  napi_value world;
  status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "world", 5, &world);
  assert(status == napi_ok);

  // NEW LEAK HERE
  for (int i=0; i < 1024; i++) {
    malloc_holder = malloc(1024);
  }

  return world;
}
```

When trying to create a memory leak you need to ensure that
the compiler has not optimized out the code that creates
the leak. For example, assigning the result of `malloc()` to either a
global variable or a variable that is read the compiler will optimize

> out the loop with the malloc and valgrind does not report

Reviewer 2: Perhaps, to clear it up a bit:
```
For example, by assigning the result of the allocation (`malloc()`) to either a
global variable or a variable that will be read afterwards the compiler will not optimize
it out along with the malloc and Valgrind will properly report the memory leak. If `malloc_holder`
in the example above is made into a local variable then the compiler may freely remove
it along with the allocations (since it is not used) and Valgrind will not find any leaks since they
will no longer exist in the code being run.
```

Author: @lundibundi updated

> a problem (since one no longer exists in the code being run).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a problem (since it no longer exists in the code being run).
```

==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==
==4174== LEAK SUMMARY:
==4174==    definitely lost: 997,064 bytes in 998 blocks
==4174==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==4174==      possibly lost: 2,304 bytes in 3 blocks
==4174==    still reachable: 8,635 bytes in 31 blocks
==4174==                       of which reachable via heuristic:
==4174==                         multipleinheritance: 48 bytes in 1 blocks
==4174==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==4174== Reachable blocks (those to which a pointer was found) are not shown.
==4174== To see them, rerun with: --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all
==4174==
==4174== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==4174== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come from
==4174== ERROR SUMMARY: 5 errors from 5 contexts (suppressed: 0 from 0)
```

> This is the most interesting report:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the most interesting part of the report:
```

==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
```

From the stack trace we can tell that the leak came from a native addon:

```console
==4174==    by 0x9794979: Method(napi_env__*, napi_callback_info__*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-addon-examples/1_hello_world/napi/build/Release/hello.node)
```

What we can't tell is where in the native addon the memory is being
allocated. This is because by default the addon is compiled without
the debug symbols which valgrind needs to be able to provide more
information.

## Enabling debug symbols to get more information

Leaks may be either in addons or Node.js itself. The sections which
follow cover the steps needed to enable debug symbols to get more info.

### Native addons

To enable debug symbols for all of your addons that are compiled on
install use:

```console
npm install --debug
```

Any options which are not consumed by npm are passed on to node-gyp and this
results in the addons being compiled with the debug option.

If the native addon contains pre-built binaries you will need to force
a rebuild.

> 

Reviewer 2: `````suggestion

```console
npm install --debug
npm rebuild
```

`````

==4174==    by 0xA1CB42: node::NodeMainInstance::Run() (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x9ACB67: node::Start(int, char**) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x5BBFB96: (below main) (libc-start.c:310)
```

This gives us some information of where to look (`node::inspector::Agent::Start`)
but not where in that function. We get more information than you might expect
(or see by default with addons) because the Node.js binary exports many of
its symbols using `-rdynamic` so that they can be used by addons. If the stack
gives you enough information to track down where the leak is, that's great,
otherwise the next step is to compile a debug build of Node.js.

To get additional information with valgrind:

* Check out the Node.js source corresponding to the release that you
  want to debug. For example:
```console
git clone https://github.com/nodejs/node.git
git checkout v12.14.1
```
* Compile with debug enabled (for additional info see
[building a debug build](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v12.14.1/BUILDING.md#building-a-debug-build)).
For example, on *nix:
```console
./configure --debug

> make  -j4

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
make -j4
```

# Investigating Memory Leaks with valgrind

A Node.js process may run out of memory due to excessive consumption of

> `Native memory`. `Native Memory` is memory which is not managed by the the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
native memory. Native Memory is memory which is not managed by the
```

(If you do want to quote, please don’t use code tags here.)

> V8 Garbage collector and is allocated either by the Node.js runtime, it's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
V8 Garbage collector and is allocated either by the Node.js runtime, its
```

> dependancies or native [addons](://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
dependencies or native [addons](://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html).
```

> This guide provides informaiton on how to use valgrind to investigate these

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide provides information on how to use valgrind to investigate these
```

issues.

## valgrind

[Valgrind](https://valgrind.org/docs/manual/quick-start.html) is a

> tool available on linux distributions which can be used to investigate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tool available on Linux distributions which can be used to investigate
```

memory usage including identifying memory leaks (memory which is
allocated and not freed) and other memory related problems
like double freeing memory.

To use valgrind:

* Be patient, running under valgrind slows execution significantly due
  to the checks being performed.
* Reduce your test case to the smallest reproduce. Due to the slowdown it is

>   important to run the minimum testcase in order to be able to do it in

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  important to run the minimum test case in order to be able to do it in
```

>   a reasonable time.

Reviewer 5: > Reduce your test case to the smallest reproduce 

also important as it reduces the complexity and reduces the overall amount of debug log to analyse?

Author: I think that helps with the overall debugging but not sure it related to investigating with valgrind

## Installation

> It is an optional package in most cases and must be installed. For example on

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is an optional package in most cases and must be installed explicitly. For example on
```

Reviewer 3: Adding to that:

```suggestion
It is an optional package in most cases and must be installed explicitly. For example, on
```

> ubuntu:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Debian/Ubuntu:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

...or `text` or nothing at all, but probably not `bash`. Using ```bash will result in bash syntax highlighting as if the commands are in a bash script.

apt-get install valgrind
```

## Invocation

> The simplest invocation of valgrind is simply

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The simplest invocation of valgrind is
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

valgrind node test.js
```

with the output being:

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

user1@minikube1:~/valgrind/node-addon-examples/1_hello_world/napi$ valgrind test.js

> valgrind: test.js: command not found

Reviewer 7: I think these two lines can be dropped.

==28993==    by 0xB4CF3A: v8::Function::Call(v8::Local<v8::Context>, v8::Local<v8::Value>, int, v8::Local<v8::Value>*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==28993==
--28993-- WARNING: unhandled amd64-linux syscall: 332
--28993-- You may be able to write your own handler.
--28993-- Read the file README_MISSING_SYSCALL_OR_IOCTL.
--28993-- Nevertheless we consider this a bug.  Please report
--28993-- it at http://valgrind.org/support/bug_reports.html.
==28993==
==28993== HEAP SUMMARY:
==28993==     in use at exit: 6,140 bytes in 23 blocks
==28993==   total heap usage: 12,888 allocs, 12,865 frees, 13,033,244 bytes allocated
==28993==
==28993== LEAK SUMMARY:
==28993==    definitely lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==      possibly lost: 304 bytes in 1 blocks
==28993==    still reachable: 5,836 bytes in 22 blocks
==28993==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993== Rerun with --leak-check=full to see details of leaked memory
==28993==
==28993== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==28993== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come
```

> This reports that Node.js is not `completely` clean as there is some memory

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This reports that Node.js is not _completely_ clean as there is some memory
```

that was allocated but not freed when the process shut down. It is often
impractical/not worth being completely clean in this respect and Node.js

> does a pretty good job only leaving in the order or 6k bytes that are

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
does a pretty good job only leaving on the order of 6KB that are
```

not freed on shutdown.

## An obvious memory leak

Leaks can be introduced in native addons and the following is a simple

> example generated by using the Hello world example in

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
example leak created by the "Hello world" addon from
```

[node-addon-examples](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-examples).

> In that example a loop which allocates ~1MB of memory and never frees it

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In that addon a loop which allocates ~1MB of memory and never frees it
```

has been added:

```C++
void* malloc_holder = nullptr;
napi_value Method(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
  napi_status status;
  napi_value world;
  status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "world", 5, &world);
  assert(status == napi_ok);

  // NEW LEAK HERE

>   for (int i=0; i< 1024; i++) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  for (int i=0; i < 1024; i++) {
```

Reviewer 4: Also to make it more consistent:

```suggestion
  for (int i = 0; i < 1024; i++) {
```

    malloc_holder = malloc(1024);
  }

  return world;
}
```

> When trying to introduce a memory leak you need to ensure that

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When trying to create a memory leak you need to ensure that
```

> the compiler has not optimized out the code you've introduced to generate

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the compiler has not optimized out the code that creates
```

> the leak. For example, with assigning the result of malloc to either a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the leak. For example, assigning the result of `malloc()` to either a
```

> global variable or a variable that is read the compiler will `optimize`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
global variable or a variable that is read the compiler will optimize
```

out the loop with the malloc and valgrind does not report

> a problem (since once does not exist in the code being run).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
a problem (since one no longer exists in the code being run).
```

> Running valgrind on the example program with this addition shows the following:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Running valgrind on this code shows the following:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

--1504-- Read the file README_MISSING_SYSCALL_OR_IOCTL.
--1504-- Nevertheless we consider this a bug.  Please report
--1504-- it at http://valgrind.org/support/bug_reports.html.
world
==1504==
==1504== HEAP SUMMARY:
==1504==     in use at exit: 1,008,003 bytes in 1,032 blocks
==1504==   total heap usage: 17,603 allocs, 16,571 frees, 18,306,103 bytes allocated
==1504==
==1504== LEAK SUMMARY:
==1504==    definitely lost: 996,064 bytes in 997 blocks
==1504==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==1504==      possibly lost: 3,304 bytes in 4 blocks
==1504==    still reachable: 8,635 bytes in 31 blocks
==1504==                       of which reachable via heuristic:
==1504==                         multipleinheritance: 48 bytes in 1 blocks
==1504==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==1504== Rerun with --leak-check=full to see details of leaked memory
==1504==
==1504== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==1504== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come from
==1504== ERROR SUMMARY: 1 errors from 1 contexts (suppressed: 0 from 0)
```

Valgrind is reporting a problem as it shows 996,604 bytes as

> definitely lost and the question is how to find where that memory is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
definitely lost and the question is how to find where that memory was
```

allocated. The next step is to rerun as suggested in the

> output with `--leak-check=full`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
output with `--leak-check=full`:
```

==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==
==4174== LEAK SUMMARY:
==4174==    definitely lost: 997,064 bytes in 998 blocks
==4174==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==4174==      possibly lost: 2,304 bytes in 3 blocks
==4174==    still reachable: 8,635 bytes in 31 blocks
==4174==                       of which reachable via heuristic:
==4174==                         multipleinheritance: 48 bytes in 1 blocks
==4174==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==4174== Reachable blocks (those to which a pointer was found) are not shown.
==4174== To see them, rerun with: --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all
==4174==
==4174== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==4174== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come from
==4174== ERROR SUMMARY: 5 errors from 5 contexts (suppressed: 0 from 0)

> user1@minikube1:~/valgrind/node-addon-examples/1_hello_world/napi$

Reviewer 7: I think this line can be removed.

Author: done

```

This is the most interesting report:

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

==4174==    by 0xBA8DB6: v8::internal::Builtin_HandleApiCall(int, unsigned long*, v8::internal::Isolate*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x1376358: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
```

From the stack trace we can tell that the leak came from a native addon:

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

==4174==    by 0x9794979: Method(napi_env__*, napi_callback_info__*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-addon-examples/1_hello_world/napi/build/Release/hello.node)
```

What we can't tell is where in the native addon the memory is being
allocated. This is because by default the addon is compiled without
the debug symbols which valgrind needs to be able to provide more
information.

## Enabling debug symbols to get more information

Leaks may be either in addons or Node.js itself. The sections which
follow cover the steps needed to enable debug symbols to get more info.

> ### addons

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Native addons
```

To enable debug symbols for all of your addons that are compiled on

> install simply use:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
install simply use:
```
```suggestion
install use:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

npm install --debug
```

Any options which are not consumed by npm are passed on to node-gyp and this
results in the addons being compiled with the debug option.

If the native addon contains pre-built binaries you will need to force
a rebuild.

The next step is to run valgrind after the rebuild. This time the information
for the leaking location includes the name of the source file and the

> line number!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
line number:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

==18481== 997,000 bytes in 997 blocks are definitely lost in loss record 35 of 35
==18481==    at 0x4C2FB0F: malloc (in /usr/lib/valgrind/vgpreload_memcheck-amd64-linux.so)
>>>>> ==18481==    by 0x9794989: Method(napi_env__*, napi_callback_info__*) (hello.cc:13)  <<<<<
==18481==    by 0x98F764: v8impl::(anonymous namespace)::FunctionCallbackWrapper::Invoke(v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value> const&) (in /home/user1/val  grind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0xBA6FC8: v8::internal::MaybeHandle<v8::internal::Object> v8::internal::(anonymous namespace)::HandleApiCallHelper<false>(v8::internal::  Isolate*, v8::internal::Handle<v8::internal::HeapObject>, v8::internal::Handle<v8::internal::HeapObject>, v8::internal::Handle<v8::internal::FunctionTem  plateInfo>, v8::internal::Handle<v8::internal::Object>, v8::internal::BuiltinArguments) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)

> ==18481==    by 0xBA8DB6: v8::internal::Builtin_HandleApiCall(int, unsigned long*, v8::internal::Isolate*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-  x64/bin/node)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
==18481==    by 0xBA8DB6: v8::internal::Builtin_HandleApiCall(int, unsigned long*, v8::internal::Isolate*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
```

==18481==    by 0x1376358: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==18481==    by 0x12F68A3: ??? (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
```

> which shows us exactly where the leak is occuring in the file hello.cc:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This new output shows us exactly where the leak is occurring in the file `hello.cc`:
```

```C++

> 6 void* malloc_holder = nullptr;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  6 void* malloc_holder = nullptr;
```

  7 napi_value Method(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
  8   napi_status status;
  9   napi_value world;
 10   status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "world", 5, &world);
 11   assert(status == napi_ok);
 12   for (int i=0; i< 1000; i++) {

>  13     malloc_holder = malloc(1000);  <<<<<< Yup this is where we are allocating the memory that is not freed

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 13     malloc_holder = malloc(1000);  // <<<<<< Yup this is where we are allocating the memory that is not freed
```

>  13     malloc_holder = malloc(1000);  <<<<<< Yup this is where we are allocating the memory that is not freed

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
 13     malloc_holder = malloc(1000);  <<<<<< This is where we are allocating the memory that is not freed.
```

Author: done

 14   }
 15   return world;
 16 }
```

### Node.js binary

> If the leak is not in an addon and in the Node.js binary itself you may need

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the leak is not in an addon and is instead in the Node.js binary itself, you may need
```

to compile node yourself and turn on debug symbols. Looking at this entry

> reported by valgrind, with the release binary we see:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
reported by valgrind, with a release binary we see:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

> 74== 304 bytes in 1 blocks are possibly lost in loss record 27 of 35

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 ==4174== 304 bytes in 1 blocks are possibly lost in loss record 27 of 35
```

==4174==    by 0x40134A6: allocate_dtv (dl-tls.c:286)
==4174==    by 0x40134A6: _dl_allocate_tls (dl-tls.c:530)
==4174==    by 0x5987227: allocate_stack (allocatestack.c:627)
==4174==    by 0x5987227: pthread_create@@GLIBC_2.2.5 (pthread_create.c:644)
==4174==    by 0xAAF9DC: node::inspector::Agent::Start(std::string const&, node::DebugOptions const&, std::shared_ptr<node::HostPort>, bool) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x9A8BE7: node::Environment::InitializeInspector(std::unique_ptr<node::inspector::ParentInspectorHandle, std::default_delete<node::inspector::ParentInspectorHandle> >) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0xA1C9A5: node::NodeMainInstance::CreateMainEnvironment(int*) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0xA1CB42: node::NodeMainInstance::Run() (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x9ACB67: node::Start(int, char**) (in /home/user1/valgrind/node-v12.14.1-linux-x64/bin/node)
==4174==    by 0x5BBFB96: (below main) (libc-start.c:310)
```

> This gives us some information of where to look (node::inspector::Agent::Start)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This gives us some information of where to look (`node::inspector::Agent::Start`)
```

> but not where in that function. We get more information that you might expect

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
but not where in that function. We get more information than you might expect
```

(or see by default with addons) because the Node.js binary exports many of

> its symbols using -rdynamic so that they can be used by addons. If the stack

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
its symbols using `-rdynamic` so that they can be used by addons. If the stack
```

> gives you enough information to track down where the leak is great,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
gives you enough information to track down where the leak is, that's great,
```

> otherwise the next step is to compile a Node.js binary with debugging enabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
otherwise the next step is to compile a debug build of Node.js.
```

To get additional information with valgrind:

> * check out the Node.js source corresponding to the release that you

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Check out the Node.js source corresponding to the release that you
```

>   want to debug. For example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  want to debug. For example:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

git clone https://github.com/nodejs/node.git

> git checkout -b v12.14.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
git checkout v12.14.1
```

(I assume? Otherwise this creates a new branch.)

```

> * compile with debug enabled (for addional info see [building a debug build](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v12.14.1/BUILDING.md#building-a-debug-build)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Compile with debug enabled (for additional info see [building a debug build](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v12.14.1/BUILDING.md#building-a-debug-build))
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

./configure --debug
make  -j4
```

> * make sure to run with your compiled debug version of Node.js. Having used

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Make sure to run with your compiled debug version of Node.js. Having used
```

>  `./configure --debug`, two binaries will have been built when make was run.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 `./configure --debug`, two binaries will have been built when `make` was run.
```

>   You must use the one which is in .../out/Debug. Add that version of the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  You must use the one which is in `out/Debug`. Add that version of the
```

  binary to your path. For example:

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

> export PATH=/home/user1/node/out/Debug/:$PATH

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is necessary. You can just specify the full path on the command line instead, which will probably lead to less confusion about which binary is being used.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @mscdex – that being said, if you do want to include commands along these lines, please use quotes around the right-hand side

Author: k removed

```

> Running valgrind using the Node.js binary with debug symbols enabled shows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Running valgrind using the debug build of Node.js shows:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```console
```

==44112== 592 bytes in 1 blocks are possibly lost in loss record 26 of 27
==44112==    at 0x4C2BF79: calloc (vg_replace_malloc.c:762)
==44112==    by 0x4012754: _dl_allocate_tls (in /usr/lib64/ld-2.17.so)
==44112==    by 0x586287B: pthread_create@@GLIBC_2.2.5 (in /usr/lib64/libpthread-2.17.so)
==44112==    by 0xFAB2D2: node::inspector::(anonymous namespace)::StartDebugSignalHandler() (inspector_agent.cc:140)
==44112==    by 0xFACB10: node::inspector::Agent::Start(std::string const&, node::DebugOptions const&, std::shared_ptr<node::HostPort>, bool) (inspector_agent.cc:777)
==44112==    by 0xE3A0BB: node::Environment::InitializeInspector(std::unique_ptr<node::inspector::ParentInspectorHandle, std::default_delete<node::inspector::ParentInspectorHandle> >) (node.cc:216)
==44112==    by 0xEE8F3E: node::NodeMainInstance::CreateMainEnvironment(int*) (node_main_instance.cc:222)
==44112==    by 0xEE8831: node::NodeMainInstance::Run() (node_main_instance.cc:108)
==44112==    by 0xE3CDEC: node::Start(int, char**) (node.cc:996)
==44112==    by 0x22D8BBF: main (node_main.cc:126)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

```

> where we can see the specific file name and line in the Node.js code which

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now we can see the specific file name and line in the Node.js code which
```

# Investigating Memory Leaks with valgrind

A Node.js process may run out of memory due to excessive consumption of
native memory. Native Memory is memory which is not managed by the
V8 Garbage collector and is allocated either by the Node.js runtime, its
dependencies or native [addons](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html).

This guide provides information on how to use valgrind to investigate these

> issues.

Reviewer 8: May be worthwhile stressing the point that this is Linux only

> issues.

Author: ```suggestion
issues on Linux platforms.
```

--28993-- Read the file README_MISSING_SYSCALL_OR_IOCTL.
--28993-- Nevertheless we consider this a bug.  Please report
--28993-- it at http://valgrind.org/support/bug_reports.html.
==28993==
==28993== HEAP SUMMARY:
==28993==     in use at exit: 6,140 bytes in 23 blocks
==28993==   total heap usage: 12,888 allocs, 12,865 frees, 13,033,244 bytes allocated
==28993==
==28993== LEAK SUMMARY:
==28993==    definitely lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993==      possibly lost: 304 bytes in 1 blocks
==28993==    still reachable: 5,836 bytes in 22 blocks
==28993==         suppressed: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
==28993== Rerun with --leak-check=full to see details of leaked memory
==28993==
==28993== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
==28993== Use --track-origins=yes to see where uninitialised values come
```

This reports that Node.js is not _completely_ clean as there is some memory
that was allocated but not freed when the process shut down. It is often
impractical/not worth being completely clean in this respect. Modern
operating systems will clean up the memory of the process after the

> shutdown while attemping to fre all memory to get a clean

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shutdown while attempting to free all memory to get a clean
```
